Ques-	Answers
Who maintains and develops the CRI Control command line utility?	Kubernetes community
In the context of Kubernetes, what is a cluster?	A set of nodes grouped together
What is the role of etcd in a Kubernetes cluster?	All of the options are correct
What is the purpose of the kubectl tool in Kubernetes?	It is used to deploy and manage applications on a Kubernetes cluster.
Which container technology does Docker primarily utilize for its containers?	LXC
Which of the following is an essential element of cloud native?	Microservices
How can you specify a specific runtime endpoint when using the CRI Control tool?	Setting the CONTAINER_RUNTIME_ENDPOINT environment variable,Using the --runtime-endpoint command line option
What is containerization?	Running microservices in their own container
Which container orchestration technology is known for being a bit difficult to set up and get started, but provides several features to customize the deployment?	Kubernetes

Replication Controller: Uses labels to filter and select the pods to monitor
Permanently switch to a namespace so no namespace mentioned everytime: Use the kubectl config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=
Controllers: Handles networking and communication b/w pods in kubernetes
kubectl apply is declarative command where 'kubectl run' and 'kubectl delete' and 'kubectl create' are imperative.
quotas in namespace is used to limit the resources like cpu and memory which can be used by objects within a namespace.
metadata in a kubernetes definition is a 'dictionary'

db-service.dev.svc.cluster.local  ----> To connect a web-app pod in the default namespace to a service named "db-service" in the "dev" namespace, what is the correct hostname format?

Live config on kubernetes cluster ---> Regardless of the approach used to create an object in Kubernetes, what does Kubernetes use to store information about the object internally?

The selector helps the ReplicaSet identify pods that were created before the ReplicaSet.

only through direct SSH access to the conatiner ---> By default, when a Docker container is deployed within a pod, how can users access the application?

Use the kubectl create -f quota-definition.yaml command and provide a definition file with the kind as ResourceQuota, namespace, and resource limits.------->How can you limit resources in a namespace in Kubernetes?

Creates a new object based on the provided configuration,Updates an existing object based on the provided configuration ----> What does the 'kubectl apply' command do in the declarative approach of managing objects in Kubernetes?

	
Use the "kubectl scale" command with the name of the replica set and provide the new number of replicas with the replicas parameter. ----> How can you update the number of replicas in a replica set using the kubectl scale command?

Managing and upgrading the underlying instances seamlessly using rolling updates ---> What is the purpose of a Deployment in Kubernetes?
